
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# MatchingFrontier: Computation of the Balance-Sample Size Frontier in Matching Methods for Causal Inference

<!-- <img src="man/figures/logo.png" align="right" width="150"/> -->

## [![CRAN_Status_Badge](https://img.shields.io/cran/v/MatchingFrontier?color=952100)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=MatchingFrontier) [![CRAN_Downloads_Badge](https://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/MatchingFrontier?color=952100)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=MatchingFrontier)

### Overview

`MatchingFrontier` implements the methods described in King, Lucas, and
Nielsen (2017) for exploring the balance-sample size frontier in
observational studies, a function the relates the size of a matched
subset to the covariate balance attained. Included are function to
create the frontier, visualize it, and estimate treatment effects along
it. In addition, functions are included to export a matched dataset at a
single point on the frontier and assess model dependence for a single
treatment effect estimate. `MatchingFrontier` interfaces with `MatchIt`
to provide additional tools for assessing balance in matched datasets
and estimating effects after matching.

To install `MatchingFrontier`, run

``` r
remotes::install_github("iqss/MatchingFrontier")
```

Below is an example of using the `MatchingFrontier` to examine the
balance-sample size frontier for the effect of a job training program on
earnings. See `vignette("MatchingFrontier")` for more information on the
setup and a more detailed exposition.

``` r
library("MatchingFrontier")
data("lalonde", package = "MatchIt")

mahal.frontier <- makeFrontier(treat ~ age + educ + race + married +
                                 nodegree + re74 + re75,
                               data = lalonde, 
                               QOI = "FSATT", 
                               metric = "dist",
                               verbose = FALSE)

mahal.frontier
```

    #> A matchFrontier object
    #> - quantity of interest: FSATT
    #> - imbalance metric: average pairwise distance
    #> - treatment: treat
    #> - covariates: age, educ, race, married, nodegree, re74, re75
    #> - number of points: 152

Plotting the frontier provides a clear picture of the relationship
between the number of units pruned in the matching and the remaining
imbalance as measured by the average Mahalanobis imbalance.

``` r
plot(mahal.frontier)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-unnamed-chunk-4-1.png" style="display: block; margin: auto;" />

We can then estimate effects along the frontier.

``` r
mahal.estimates <- estimateEffects(mahal.frontier, 
                                   base.form = re78 ~ treat,
                                   verbose = FALSE)
mahal.estimates
```

    #> A frontierEstimates object
    #> - quantity of interest: FSATT
    #> - model sensitivity method: none
    #> - number of estimates: 152
    #> - treatment: treat
    #> - covariates: age, educ, race, married, nodegree, re74, re75
    #> - outcome model: re78 ~ treat

Finally, we can plot the estimates and their confidence intervals.

``` r
plot(mahal.estimates)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-unnamed-chunk-6-1.png" style="display: block; margin: auto;" />

Other tools include `generateDataset()` and `frontier_to_matchit()` for
extracting a matched dataset at one point on the frontier and
`modelDependence()` for computing model dependence bounds for a single
estimate. See `vignette("MatchingFrontier")` for a more in-depth
tutorial.

The work in this package is based off the following paper:

King, Gary, Christopher Lucas, and Richard A. Nielsen. 2017. “The
Balance-Sample Size Frontier in Matching Methods for Causal Inference.”
*American Journal of Political Science* 61(2): 473–89.
